Slavs, after all, they settled a little bit in the southern
lands, in principle, don't
look if if I knew in the Baltics
There were Slavs there too But if we
take the Eastern ones directly, did they even reach there,
like the population of the
Baltic countries is modern Yes Latvia Lithuania
Estonia Yes there are autochthonous  there were Baltic
peoples and Finno-Ugric peoples, these are the
Estonians. Yes, Estonians, uh, it turns out that the
main area of ​​settlement of the Slavs. Yes, if
we look, it was part of the territory of
Poland and part of the territory of Ukraine with
Belarus.
Hello, Hello, where are you from? I am from
Veliky Novgorod. I have already communicated with you a
long time ago.
spring
You are probably looking for someone to
talk to provocatively
yes yes yes you You talk about political
topics political
historical And I just talk to people
about the World Cup
and about everyday life, let's say when it turns out to have
some kind of a connection with a person that's when
you know Ukrainians ask where I'm from
I say Veliky Novgorod they will say And what is
Veliky Novgorod great about, you
know? This is already  provocation And what is he
Great really
what in your understanding Greatness let's do it
this way Since when did they start calling it
Great Novgorod it wasn't called that
Yes it wasn't called that before the decree in
my opinion Yelny wasn't called that yes that
is this modern one they already came up with
Great so that's it  the question is how is he
Great No, you know, there is a more interesting
question, was he ever called
Mr. Veliky Novgorod or was this also
invented? It was invented, I have
n't really studied this question Although I live
here
and maybe you
have Who invented calling him that  I
have no idea [music] what makes Veliky
Novgorod great It seems to me
that the territory on which it was located was a
separate state, that's something,
that's a republican state
[music]
that was
sabyn stood out
Although there was also ve and so on, it
was called so well  look if you
think like that then you understand that between
Novgorod and Moscow there was nothing in common
between the Moscow principality and the
Novgorodians I will tell you even more that
when Iva Zavod Novgorod they merged  here
they believe A little more in the Catholic
side goes and for them it
was like fighting with foreigners
even a little
That's because the Novgorod Republic
is a progressive European
state was yes when the Muscovites
attacked and captured Novgorod they howled in
fact almost the entire population of the Armed Forces they
population  they didn't cut they cut the elite
because why cut the peasants they
collect bread as if they are the ones who can
consolidate them yes yes most likely even
you know
not literally everyone everyone in general well the entire
elite And at that time in the old days
God forbid you will be someone there  from
Novgorod in another city somewhere there
somewhere rno with Moscow you there
immediately will be flogged
to an enemy state as if which
needs to be roared and mastered with
what the languages ​​va conquered listen it is very
difficult you know with an ordinary Novgorod to talk about this
He practically nothing
won't know about it Well, you are an unusual
Novgorodian I think that if we had
preserved our identity we would have had our own
dialects We could have been
really its own kind of original
state not like Nare the thing is that
many philologists will distinguish on the basis of the
SN could have formed just the fourth
Slavic East Slavic language that
is Belarusian Russian Ukrainian
and Novgorod would have been but it turns out it
died out Who Who was interested in this
information maybe  maybe you read it maybe you will
say because I have heard a little
about it of course talk about it
Because I don't know if there are works about
it I will say so I read it in Wikipedia
so I can't say Whose these
Practice is in Russian works are based on
yes that  there is information from Wikipedia on the
classification of languages ​​I
looked at this, it is generally difficult to
communicate with
someone. Perhaps there are people. Well, it is probably
around some professorial environment,
such exchanges
from the Novgorod period still have
written memos, therefore, the analysis
can still be carried out like this.  that is, it’s
not like there are these birch bark letters and
so on, yes, yes,
yes, by the way, we continue to
conduct excavations constantly, we have one of the
oldest ones  streets There was an excavation recently, they
were doing restoration of the street But we
can't just do restoration,
we need to excavate, it's archaeological.
And
there they constantly find some
cultural finds, there are still
no The fact is that in that territory, there are
cultural sounds, there is a question  When does the
Slavic
cultural layer begin on this territory because yes,
as modern Russian historiography
Yes, it wants to stretch that the Slavs
came from Novgorod Yes, and then, as it
were,
cm It seems to me that this is not modern
Russian historiography, this is still, you
know, a follower of Medinsky, after all,
as  - now
minutes So where is this
book so so so second
but there is a good such book from the
Soviet period in Ukrainian
called Slavs in Podolia Podolia
is where I live city Khmelnitsky
Khmelnytsky region vi
here hundred and seventh century of our era Yes
really scientific  work yes Well
popular science I understand yes that
is here are the full results of excavations
this is the author from Kamenets Podolsk
Historical University Pedagogical
University there is a very strong  the
history department that is they are completely located and
if we are talking about the Slavs in this
territory Yes, let's look at the 67th century
Slavs are there
yes in Novgorod Slavs are in the
archaeological layer When they
appear I
think maybe from the tenth century maybe
somewhere like that
eh I think that they  were there before but
just like the main mass yes subra yes
if we are an archaeological substrate yes
Slavic appears there quite
late just closer probably to
us Finno-Ugric these ka Because
when for example
they say Yes what about here from Novgorod
came some there  this mythical
Rurik Yes, which until now they made
Rurik's settlement invented Yes, Kiev
Kiev already for some reason was yes, as
if we
look and I, for example, when people from
Russia often say here is the holy
speech Show where you have your Moscow
region and so on
settlements  were for example in the 6th and 10th
centuries Yes, if we open the door on my
territory
Yes, darkness, darkness - this is something that only happened in the
Soviet Union Yes, for example,
we managed to
dig up before that if we look at the map there is an archaeological one even this is Sicinsky this is 1914 year also here I have in the region he map Podilsky Scythian burial mounds are marked there Slavic Settlements even then told That is where they were poking around there were some settlements along the river there is that Dniester Yes, there were a lot of settlements Yes, there were Slavic ones And so on if Kyiv and Dnieper, there were a lot of Slavic settlements there Novgorod Well, it still seems to me as far as I remember, of course, I have been interested in this information for a long time in general, I know, there are people who are constantly in the context of all these things, here conversations of the tsevs with the Russians Yes, I moved away a little before that, but as far as I remember, the Slavs, after all, they settled a little in the southern lands, well, in principle, don’t look if if I knew in the Baltics There were Slavs there too But if we take the Eastern one directly, did they even get there at all? would the population be in the modern Baltic countries Yes Latvia Lithuania Estonia Yes  there were autochthonous Baltic
peoples and Finno-Ugric peoples, those are the Estonians,
yes, yeah, Estonians, it turns out that the
main area of ​​settlement of the Slavs was Yes, if we look, it was
part of the territory of Poland and part of
the territory of Ukraine with Belarus, so
modern, that's where it came from, if we
look, and this R1 A1 plo group as it is
now  according to research, the core is also there
and we look at the settlement maps
then the Slavs migrated to the south to the Balkans Yes,
Novgorod is
next to it, this Upper Lusatian Sorb and
Lower Lusatian in Germany now and
so on That is, there was an expansion
by the way, here is what you know about
the Croats, that  they were like in
Czechoslovakia
earlier in Czechoslovakia they rashe Look the
thing is that there is There is more I
don't really know anything for example on the territory of
part of modern Ukraine and part of
modern Slovakia it turns out there
lived tribes of white Croats I heard the
name But besides that I yes we have
For example  I was in Lviv region there is
such a style Gorodishche there like the
movie Hobbit
watched Do you have it now  somewhere to
type You know I watched
it literally 2 weeks ago so I I remember I
mean to type
this is the style the capital of the white Croats
Write now I how it is
in Russian yes style skoe Gorodishche here
it is in Russian white Serbia white
Croatia not style  style Gorodishche
write in Russian style
so
there is the capital of the Great Slavic
state white Croatia ancient
Homeland of the Croats which occupied part of
the territory of modern Ukraine
Carpathian and Transcarpathian regions
Slovakia Hungary Poland the capital was the city of
Lko
[music]
Nikolay
hijacking no-no no this is Nikolayev in this in the
Lviv region  there is a city mikolai
mikolaev Yes, they just wrote it Nikolaev
Yes, I just know where Nikolaev is, my
friend lives there This is not this, this is different So,
photos Look at the photos of this
style Gorodishche caves yes, such
Khabi tones yes, that is, that's exactly
what's cool Such yes, that is, quite
Interestingly it seems that in limestone there is just a
sandstone knocked out there, not Yes, sandstone
I was there for that, that is  and it turns out that there were
some excavations there too, yes, that
is, essentially, where the nobility lived. Yes, there are
more settlements there, the
more territory it is, essentially. Like a
castle, as if more defensive, not
defensive, but more protected for the nobility.
And the Croats had it too.  yes, the Croats
who are now in the Balkans Yes, they
also came in the fifth or sixth
century, the Slavs also came to the
Balkans, there
were no Slavs there, there was no knowledge And now
scientists are also arguing whether those white
Croats have anything to do with those
Croats  that there are red Croats and white
Croats Well, there are different ones, it is surrounded by
different myths And so on Yes, of
course, that place is completely
unique in its combination of different cultures
and
what Lord the Balkans Yes, the Balkans Well,
look at any place where different
peoples intersect Yes, and there is a sea, mountains,
etc.  let's say the Mediterranean route essentially
from Rome between Rome and Greece Yes it was That is
there was always life and movement And so on and so
forth And what was the name of the
second Trading city there is Venice  and
some other popular one near the
Apennine peninsula through which
trade passed Venice and what other
Kato ege
gege because Genu they are along the coast
if Venice it was essentially a local
state Yes, then the Genoese they
are in Crimea Genoese possessions even in
Crimea was yes Genoa state it was
distributed in different these
territories Venetians as far as I remember
already in the later times even had
their own land in this in Constantinople at its
decline they had their own district There they
used there whoever there only did not have
in these in earlier  cities Yes, these were
they were like Constantinople they
were multi-ethnic there with the same as there
were quarters there conditionally Armenian And
so on Here with us even if Take
Lviv so the city of Lviv there is also there that there
were some Armenian there
Polish Ukrainian  territory Well, that
is, people of Kuchkovo according to some cultural
peculiarities to us By the way, when
excursions are conducted in Novgorod, children
call it that way here in our country the Kremlin I don't know, in
Ukraine we call it that way whining
here if in Gorodishche as if its most well protected part is the fences yes yes yes Here about polyethnicity what they tell us about the fact that we really have a Gothic building and they tell us that it was the first Gothic building Well maybe in the Novgorod Republic I don't remember exactly, maybe in Rus' itself, as if in a broad sense, as if, here's about the detinets. Yes, that's what the word Detinets means in Russian. Detinets. I may seem a little stupid now, as if I can't give a normal answer to this question, well, probably. something from the mother Detinets I don't know look how it will be in Ukrainian child so ditko in my opinion tyna tyna yes yes So in Ukrainian it's tyts it's like the most this basic like from the word tyna that's all in in Russian it has lost its meaning, though, because there is still this ancient word left. And modern Russians, well, that's probably why we don't understand it and now many people don't even call it that anymore. Let's say  new generation Well,
just the Kremlin and the Kremlin And also the Kremlin
look at the Kremlin Yes the Kremlin is more
churs already maybe maybe I know
for you they will be a bit of a boring interlocutor
because I can in
most cases I will nod because I
lack knowledge of what kind of as I would
of course I studied at the socio-cultural
heart of tourism But it was a long time ago as
if I lost my knowledge I understood Well, that's
it And by the way about the language Yes, it's quite
interesting because Russians often
tell me that your Ukrainian language is
artificial, this is a corrupted
Russian and so on Further Yes And I  here's an
example of why For example, in Russian,
milk is written as in Ukrainian, but in
Ukrainian it is read as milk And in Russian, it
is read as
milk I don't even know this It's just that the
pronunciation is like that Why, no That's
why the pronunciation is Tae
happened to be different from the spelling Well,
imagine Lomonosov  hears the
pronunciation of milk A writes down Milk
really That would be wonderful good let's
Why why here uh I'll say it this way the thing is
that
uh letter to
the territory where Russians now live
yes that is these different tribes there
there were Finno-Ugric and others Yes it came from Greece originally from where or do you mean and the letter itself is a way to record sounds as in general in ce If we look at the way to record sounds in Kyiv yes Cyrillic Yes it came from Bulgaria from Bulgarians from Greece in Bulgaria in Bulgarians And from Kyiv then it went to other lands, so that's how the former Kievan Rus was written down, so it sounded like that, and it was written. Well, here's the Cyrillic alphabet for fanatics. This is for the transmission of fanatics, so the Ukrainian language is written down and read exactly the same. Here we just have here we see and read what happened in the Russian language dialects dialects zh So they were absolutely different for example in many Finno-Ugric peoples Yes, the Mo Finno-Ugric peoples have this Akane, this Vologda region and so on and so forth there are all sorts of yes And when Why What are the Finno Ugrians, they are more sulfuric Vologda is the Southern regions Vologda Vologda was inhabited by the Fiki tribes Vol Filki tribes  There were no Slavs there
Well, it's very simple, at least one Slavic
Settlement Find there some century
in Vologda,
that is, and you
get this Imagine, for example, you are
now teaching Ramazan Kadyrov
Russian So he speaks Russian but
with a local dialect with a local
accents And so on Yes, the same thing happened
with the population of these Finno-Ugric
population of these modern Russian
regions Yes, it came to them, that is, it
didn’t fall on them, in short, that’s why they a little
Yes, it changed to the phonetics of the
people that were Yes, just like  for
example France yes uh came there uh
essentially there was a Roman influence Yes there was uh
Germanic here are the times of the Franks Yes they
conquered yes And there was a Celtic substrate
Gauls Yes And here is the pronunciation like this here is
where it comes from here with the English it is also
interesting the French and Germans came there
and  the Romans there look at the
modern English language it is essentially an
evolution from the Germanic languages ​​from the
Germanic ulcers Who is there Frisia these are the
Anglo-Saxons who are fierce Frisia yes yes
which we get And what do we
get German Yes we see more
how it is written and
read yes So
English does not work Yes everything is
gone Yes that's why and e with the Russian language
it turned out milk Well they couldn't yes milk is
two in the Russian language in general a
lot  borrowed words as if I don't
mean so so as well as this
Chego Chego Togo Yes, you have regions
in which there are cabins Yes, maybe nothing
so nothing there is there is probably probably
there is as if yes, well, now right on
Google in  what are the names of the regions now uh
so and in the residents of which
Okay now I won't do this su
the point is that it is definitely there Believe
that it is Yes let's say yes regions I just so that
now Time not to waste which uh that
Yes nothing so nothing Yes  nothing
good yes here
uh there was a song like this well and there are
some aka Yes and it turns out that in
Ukraine we write yogo moloko and read
yogo moloko togo moloko Yes in Russian
it is written togo moloko as in Ukrainian but it is read
tavo
moloko it is written one by one and it is read  and
we  we are leading all this to the fact that
some Russians are spitting In general,
considering that the Ukrainian language is artificial
Although, like
yes, yes, that is, if you look at languages
evolve, yes, the Ukrainian language
today is not at all the language
that was 000 years ago in these
territories Yes, it has a connection  with him Yes,
it undergoes grammatical and
lexical changes like any other language
English Take today and
Shakespearean language - these are different languages ​​you will
not read Shakespeare in the original If
you, well, do not understand
some I will read the purpose of the words there of
course well it will be well How to read so to
pronounce maybe that's how it turns out  the letters are
the same, but the sounds are not the same.
Well, look, in modern Russian
the sounds are not the same as they were 500 years ago,
also in the Ukrainian language. For example,
the letter yat. I don't know why it was
removed, but the meanings of words also
change, by the way, not only the words change.  yes
with the letter yada The thing is that the letter yada
denoted the sound yada - this is a soft sign
this uh hard sign like crossed out
such a soft crossed out  yes, it turns out
that for example the word bread was written with the
letter
yat before the revolution kh l that's the thing T B
in the Ukrainian language it's
khlib in the Russian language it's bread
in a certain period
this sound is yad it's e designation the letter yad
denoted a sound something like a diphthong
and  that is, the middle between i and e, in the
process of evolution in some languages ​​it
grew only in and in some only in
e, that is, e, this diphthong, it disappeared, it
disappeared, and the letter is how they wrote 500 years
ago Yes, this letter is poison Bread That's how they
write  as a result, Ukrainians read bread
oh bread Russian bread here yat Why was it
cancelled Yes because it no longer had
any meaning just like the world before the reform
This is when Lenin had already changed the alphabet
Yes in the Russian language there was a letter with a dot
like in Ukrainian Yes yes I know and here  there was a world
through and as now and a world with a dot these are
two different worlds there was a world as a universe and a
world as Let's end with the world
Because it's hard for me to maintain
this topic If you were talking about Novgorod, for example,
Let's talk about  Novgorod let's talk
No let's end with peace
I mean I want to
leave well but time just started me more
than you have now now on peace very
good phrase about peace Ukrainian philosopher
Dmitry Korchinsky He said so peace
is not the absence of war peace  - this is
the absence of Moscow, we can
finish with this Well, its influence is that m They
disappeared you know it sounds monstrous all the
best until the
snow ended in peace this is a wonderful
ending like a squeak
comment a letter to y Telegram right now axis
VN a
Popik this is very and very important YouTube is
busy with us  via skarg Orki in your ban and
very many videos do not show people
at times do not show information about ST so
that we Mali operational links
are written right now and while there in telegram
okm video there is also interesting and useful
information and we are sorry for you
constant  operational connection
independently in that  will show you the
YouTube process Slava Ukraine letter
with